---
layout: post
title:      "**From Health Issues, to Code Issues**"
date:       2018-10-13 01:17:37 +0000
permalink:  from_health_issues_to_code_issues
---


I wish my story was something more like discovering my love of code through video games or messing around with a programming in my younger days. My story of how I got into coding is not as glamorous. The best way to describe it is, life. Life happens. Things happen that are out of our control. Things happened to me that were not my fault, but I was still responsible for what I did with my life after those events. 

I graduated with a bachelors in Information Systems back in 2013. I couldn't find work so I decided to try grad school for web and application development. I had no prior background or any particular love for programming. I just needed to be able to have a career and make a decent living. I learned Javascript, HTML and CSS. After a few semesters I had already decided that my thesis would be about online education. Funny, considering that I ended in an online coding bootcamp. Around November 2014 during a database class I was taking I started to feel ill. I left the class early and started to feel worst after that. My entire right side of my body felt weak, my eyes did not stop moving and I had trouble walking and breathing. (This will make sense in a bit) I took an ambulance to a hospital and they didn't do anything for me. The next day I would get these really bad coughs. The coughs were so bad that I couldn't get any air in and I would pass out. Another ambulance ride later to a different hospital and nothing. Hospital couldn't do anything for me. The next day I had the really bad coughs again and passed out, but this time I coughed up blood. Finally, after the third ambulance ride to a different hospital I was admitted. I spent a few weeks in the ICU and doctors did a bronchoscopy and took a tissue sample of my lungs for testing. They found blood in my lungs. Eventually I was diagnosed with Wegners, an auto immune disease that attacks the blood vessels in my lungs. They put a tube in my chest to drain out the fluid and blood from my lungs and they put a pick in my chest for a couple sessions of plasmapheresis(drain my blood to filter out the plasma to receive donar plasma). This disease didn't explain the never problems I had (and still do). My trouble walking, seeing, weakness on one side and loss of fine motor skills in my right hand (my dominant hand) had nothing to do with the wegners. I went to get an MRI done of my brain and it turns out that I have a chiari malformation. A cyst pushing against my cerebelum due to a birth defect.The chiari malformation was also responsible for my central sleep apnea. Basically my brain had issues telling my body to breath. I had to sleep with a bi-pap machine every night. I really hit the loto in terms of bad health. Because of my illness I had to stop going to grad school. I was hospitalized for around a month. It didn't stop there unfortunately.

I signed a waiver because there was a drug called cytoxan that showed promising signs for Wegners. Once a month I would go do chemo. The chemo didn't help and I ended back in the hospital for about another month. I made another attempt to go back to grad school. By this time I was over 400 pounds. The lack of moving, medication, (I was taking high doses of prednisone) and illnesses contributed to the weight gain, I would be out of breath just for walking a few feet and I would use a cane because my balance was so terrible. I was taking database yet again, and I started to feel ill. I was hospitalized for the third time for about a month. I was almost 420 pounds with a lung disease and nerve damage due to a cyst in my brain. I decided right there that I needed to focus on my health. I maxed out my credit card and bought a stationary bike which I used to ride while using an oxygen machine.

In January 2016 I was almost 420 pounds. Mostly everyone I knew doubted that I would lose weight without bariatric surgery. I was too sick for surgery so I had no choice but to lose the weight myself. As of today, October 12 2018, I weigh 237.4 pounds. I dropped enough weight to be able to get surgery to remove the cyst. My weight loss was not fast. It took years to get here through a combination of counting calories and trying to eat mostly unprocessed foods, lifting weights and cardio. I went from being out of breath just from taking a shower to holding my breath for over two minutes. I went from being out of breath for walking a few feet, to running and jumping rope. I still have Wegners and still take medication for it. I still have the nerve problems even though I had surgery to get the cyst removed. My eyes don't stop moving, my balance is terrible, my right hand lost some feeling and fine motor skills, but I'm still here.

So, how did I end up here? I figured that I might as well try a boot camp for coding since that's what I was studying in grad school. There's no way I can go back after a few years and there's no way I will be able to take out a loan to pay for grad school I think my health is in control for now. I could have a flare up from the Wegners but who knows. I still workout, (5 days a week currently) I still count my calories, and I still continue to lose fat. Since I got my health under control I figured it's time to  work on getting a career. Life happened, but I'm here now. Despite the weight that I lost with my illnesses against me, I never once boasted about it, even though mostly everyone doubted me, I didn't set out to get in shape to prove them wrong. I did it to prove myself right. 
